# oligosaccharides-microbiota-relation
This repository contain a R script for research on the temporal relationship between human milk microbes and oligosaccharides and their role in the development of infant gut microbiota. This project is part of the MSB1015 Scientific Programming course at Maastricht University by Regina Penner (October 2024).

Project Structure:

scripts/: Contains the R script(s) used for analysis.

data/: Contains the input datasets required for running the analysis.

plots/: Contains the output plots generated by the scripts.

Usage Instructions to run the scripts:
1. Open the R script(s) in RStudio.
2. I recommend using RStudio’s Visual Mode for better readability and to see the structure of the code. The outline of the code will appear on the right side of the coding window, making navigation easier.
3. Ensure that all required libraries are installed. The necessary packages are listed at the beginning of the script.
4. The paths are set up as relative paths, so as long as the folder structure is not changed, the script will run without needing to adjust the working directory.

The scripts include explanations for the selected methods and provide interpretations of the results. 
The data is taken from the Baby Carbs Study (1).

Bibliography
1. Endika, M. F. et al. Seeding and feeding milestones: the role of human milk microbes and oligosaccharides in the temporal development of infant gut microbiota. Gut Microbiome, 5, e7 (2024).

For any questions, feel free to contact:

Name: Regina Penner

Email: r.penner@student.maastrichtuniversity.nl
